# Day 3-4-5

# 1. File system Module

<aside>
💡 To handle file operations like writing, reading, deleting, etc., Node.js provides an inbuilt module called FS (File System). Node.js gives the functionality of file I/O by providing wrappers around the standard POSIX functions. All file system operations can have **synchronous** and **asynchronous** forms depending upon user requirements. To use this File System module, use the **require()** method:

</aside>

```jsx
const fs = require('fs');
```

<aside>
💡 flags : A string that identifies how the file is opened.

</aside>

- **'r'**: Open file to read. An exception is throwed if file is not exsited.
- **'r+'**: Open file to read và wirite. An exception is throwed if file is not exsited.
- **'w'**: Open file to write. Create a new file if file is not exist, else remove content file
- **'w+'**: Open file to read và wirite. Create a new file if file is not exist, else remove content file.
- **'a'**: Open file to write at end file. Create a new file if file is not exist.
- **'a+'**: Open file to read and write at end file. Create a new file if file is not exist.

## 1.1 Fs Synchronous

<aside>
💡 They are called **blocking functions** as it waits for each operation to complete, only after that, it executes the next operation, hence blocking the next command from execution i.e. a command will not be executed until & unless the query has finished executing to get all the result from previous commands.

</aside>

<aside>
💡 Because there are no callbacks or promises, synchronous code is often easy to understand and follow.

</aside>

### 1.1.1 Open file

- **openSync**(path, flag): Returns an integer representing the file descriptor.
    - **path:** It holds the path of the file. It is of type string, Buffer, or URL.
    - **flags:** It holds either a string or a number value. Its default value of it is ‘r’.

```jsx
try {
    const file = fs.openSync("./data/input.txt", "r");
    console.log(file); // an integer representing the file descriptor
} catch (e) {
    console.log(e);
}
```

### 1.1.2 Read file

- **readFileSync**(path) : Returns: string or Buffer
    - **path:** It takes the relative path of the text file. The path can be of URL type. The file can also be a file descriptor. If both the files are in the same folder just give the filename in quotes.
    - **options:** It is an optional parameter that contains the encoding and flag, the encoding contains data specification. Its default value is null which returns the raw buffer and the flag contains an indication of operations in the file. Its default value is ‘r’.

```jsx
// without option
console.log(fs.readFileSync("./data/input.txt")); // <Buffer 57 65 6c 63 6f 6d 65 20 4e 6f 64 65 4a 73>

// with option
console.log(
     fs.readFileSync("./data/input.txt", { encoding: "utf8", flag: "r" })
); // Welcome NodeJs
```

### 1.1.3 Write file

- **fs.writeFileSync**( file, data, options )
    - **file:** It is a string, Buffer, URL, or file description integer that denotes the path of the file where it has to be written. Using a file descriptor will make it behave similarly to the fs.write() method.
    - **data:** It is a string, Buffer, TypedArray, or DataView that will be written to the file.
    - **options:** It is a string or object that can be used to specify optional parameters that will affect the output. It has three optional parameters:
        - **encoding:** It is a string that specifies the encoding of the file. The default value is ‘utf8’.
        - **flag:** It is a string that specifies the flag used while writing to the file. The default value is ‘w’.

```jsx
let data = "Tran Vu Hoang Son";
fs.writeFileSync("./data/input.txt", data);
console.log(fs.readFileSync("./data/input.txt", "utf8")); // Tran Vu Hoang Son

let data = "\nNodeJs internship at LizAI";
fs.writeFileSync("./data/input.txt", data, {
    encoding: "utf8",
    flag: "a+",
});
console.log(fs.readFileSync("./data/input.txt", "utf8"));

// Tran Vu Hoang Son
// NodeJs internship at LizAI
```

### 1.1.4 **Appending file**

- **appendFileSync**(filepath, data, options):
    - **filepath:** It is a String that specifies the file path.
    - **data:** It is mandatory and it contains the data that you append to the file.
    - **options:** It is an optional parameter that specifies the encoding/mode/flag.

```jsx
console.log(fs.readFileSync("./data/core-modules.txt", "utf8")); 
// Learn Core Modules in NodeJS

fs.appendFileSync("./data/core-modules.txt", " - Do exercises");
console.log(fs.readFileSync("./data/core-modules.txt", "utf8")); 
// Learn Core Modules in NodeJS - Do exercises
```

### 1.1.5 Closing file

- **closeSync**( fd )
    - **fd:** It is an integer which denotes the file descriptor of the file of which to be closed.

```jsx
try {
    // open file to reaad
    const fd = fs.openSync("./data/core-modules.txt", "r");

    // read file
    let bytesRead = fs.readSync(fd, buffer, 0, buffer.length, 0);
    console.log(buffer.toString("utf8", 0, bytesRead));
    // Learn Core Modules in NodeJS - Do exercises - Take a report

    // close file
    fs.closeSync(fd);
    console.log("File descriptor is closed");

    // try to read file after closing
    bytesRead = fs.readSync(fd, buffer, 0, buffer.length, 0); // Error
    console.log("read again : ", buffer.toString("utf8", 0, bytesRead));
} catch (err) {
    console.error(err.message);
}
// EBADF: bad file descriptor, read
```

### 1.1.6 Delete file

- **unlinkSync**( path )
    - **path:** It is a string, Buffer or URL which represents the file or symbolic link which has to be removed.

```jsx
console.log( 
  fs.readFileSync('./data/core-modules.txt', 'utf8') 
); 
fs.symlinkSync(__dirname + "/data/core-modules.txt", 
               "symlinkToCore", 'file'); 
console.log( 
  fs.readFileSync('symlinkToCore', 'utf8') 
); 

fs.unlinkSync("symlinkToCore"); 

console.log( 
    fs.readFileSync('symlinkToCore', 'utf8') 
);  // Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory, open 'symlinkToCore'
```

## 1.2 Fs **Asynchronous**

<aside>
💡 They are called **non-blocking functions** as it never waits for each operation to complete, rather it executes all operations in the first go itself. The result of each operation will be handled once the result is available i.e. each command will be executed soon after the execution of the previous command. While the previous command runs in the background and loads the result once it is finished processing the data.

</aside>

<aside>
💡 Because they do not block processes, asynchronous methods are often used to handle I/O tasks, which improves application performance, especially in environments with many I/O operations.

</aside>

### 1.2.1 Open file

- **open**(path, flag, callback)
    - **path:** It holds the name of the file to read or the entire path if stored at another location.
    - **flag:** The operation in which the file has to be opened.
    - **callback:** It is a callback function that is called after reading a file. It takes two parameters:

```jsx
fs.open("./data/input.txt", "r", function (err, file) {
    if (err) throw err;
    console.log(file); // an integer representing the file descriptor
});
```

### 1.2.2 Read file

- **readFile**(path, encoding, callback): It returns the contents/data stored in file or error if any
    - **path:** It holds the name of the file to read or the entire path if stored at another location.
    - **encoding:** It holds the encoding of the file. Its default value is **‘utf8’**.
    - **callback:** It is a callback function that is called after reading of file. It takes two parameters:
        - **err:** If any error occurred.
        - **data:** Contents of the file.

```jsx
fs.readFile('./data/input.txt', 'utf8', function(err, data){
    // Display the file content
    console.log(data); // Welcome NodeJs
});

// without encoding
fs.readFile('./data/input.txt', (err, data) => {
    console.log(data); // <Buffer 57 65 6c 63 6f 6d 65 20 4e 6f 64 65 4a 73>
})
```

- **read**(fd, buffer, offset, length, position, callback)
    - **fd:** File descriptor returned by fs.open() method.
    - **buffer:** Stores the data fetched from the file.
    - **offset:** Offset in the buffer indicating where to start writing.
    - **length:** An integer that specifies the number of bytes to read.
    - **position:** An integer that specifies where to begin reading from in the file. If the position is null, data is read from the current file position.
    - **callback:** The callback function accepts the three arguments ie. (err, bytesRead, buffer).

```jsx
fs.open("./data/input.txt", "r", function (error, fd) {
    fs.read(fd, buffer, 0, buffer.length, null, function (error, bytesRead, buffer) {
            let data = buffer.toString("utf8");
            console.log(data); // Welcome NodeJs
        });
});
```

### 1.2.3 Write file

- **fs.writeFile**( file, data, options, callback )
    - **file:** It is a string, Buffer, URL or file description integer that denotes the path of the file where it has to be written. Using a file descriptor will make it behave similar to fs.write() method.
    - **data:** It is a string, Buffer, TypedArray or DataView that will be written to the file.
    - **options:** It is an string or object that can be used to specify optional parameters that will affect the output. It has three optional parameter:
        - **encoding:** It is a string value that specifies the encoding of the file. The default value is ‘utf8’.
        - **mode:** It is an integer value that specifies the file mode. The default value is 0o666.
        - **flag:** It is a string value that specifies the flag used while writing to the file. The default value is ‘w’.
    - **callback:** It is the function that would be called when the method is executed.
        - **err:** It is an error that would be thrown if the operation fails.

```jsx
let data = "Learn Core Modules in NodeJS";
fs.writeFile(
    "./data/core-modules.txt",
    data,
    {
        encoding: "utf8",
        flag: "a+",
    },
    (err) => {
        if (err) console.log(err);
        else {
            console.log(fs.readFileSync("./data/core-modules.txt", "utf8")); // Learn Core Modules in NodeJS
        }
    }
);
```

### 1.2.4 **Appending file**

- **appendFile**(filepath, data, options, callback):
    - **filepath:** It is a String that specifies the file path.
    - **data:** It is mandatory and it contains the data that you append to the file.
    - **options:** It is an optional parameter that specifies the encoding/mode/flag.
    - **callback:** Function is mandatory and is called when appending data to file is completed.

```jsx
console.log(fs.readFileSync("./data/core-modules.txt", "utf8")); 
// Learn Core Modules in NodeJS - Do exercises

fs.appendFile("./data/core-modules.txt", " - Take a report", (err) => {
    if (err) {
        console.log(err);
    } else {
        // Get the file contents after the append operation
        console.log(fs.readFileSync("./data/core-modules.txt", "utf8")); 
        // Learn Core Modules in NodeJS - Do exercises - Take a report
    }
});
```

### 1.2.5 **Closing file**

- **close**( fd, callback )
    - **fd:** It is an integer that denotes the file descriptor of the file for which to be closed.
    - **callback:** It is a function that would be called when the method is executed.
        - **err:** It is an error that would be thrown if the method fails.

```jsx
try {
    // open file to reaad
    const fd = fs.openSync("./data/core-modules.txt", "r");

    // read file
    let bytesRead = fs.readSync(fd, buffer, 0, buffer.length, 0);
    console.log(buffer.toString("utf8", 0, bytesRead));
    // Learn Core Modules in NodeJS - Do exercises - Take a report

    // close file
    fs.close(fd, (error) => {
        try {
            // try to read file after closing
            bytesRead = fs.readSync(fd, buffer, 0, buffer.length, 0); // Error
            console.log("read again : ", buffer.toString("utf8", 0, bytesRead));
        } catch (error) {
            console.log(error);
        }
    });
} catch (err) {
    console.error(err.message);
}
// EBADF: bad file descriptor, read
```

### 1.2.6 Delete file

- **unlink**( path, callback )
    - **path:** It is a string, Buffer or URL that**,** represents the file or symbolic link that has to be removed.
    - **callback:** It is a function that would be called when the method is executed.

```jsx
fs.unlink("./data/introduce.md", (err) => {
    if (err) console.log(err);
    else {
        console.log("\nDeleted file");
        // Deleted file
    }
});
```

<aside>
💡 In Addition, u could delete a symlink

</aside>

## 1.3 More methods

- **exists**( path, callback ):
    - **path:** The path at which directory is to be tested for existence. It can be string, buffer, etc.
    - **callback:** It is a callback function passed to the exists() method.

```jsx
fs.exists("./data/core-modules.txt", (exists) => {
    console.log(exists); // true
});
fs.exists("./data/core-modules.pdf", (exists) => {
    console.log(exists); // false
});
```

- **mkdir**(path, callback)
    - **path:** This parameter holds the path of the directory that has to be created.
    - **callback:** This parameter holds the callback function that contains an error. The recursive option if set to true will not give an error message if the directory to be created already exists.

```jsx
 fs.mkdir("test", (err) => {
    if (err) {
         return console.error(err);
    }
    console.log("test Directory created successfully!");
});
 // test Directory created successfully!
```

- **readdir**( path, options, callback )
    - **path:** It holds the path of the directory from where the contents have to be read. It can be a String, Buffer or URL.
    - **options:** It is an object that can be used to specify optional parameters that will affect the method. It has two optional parameters:
        - **encoding:** It is a string value which specifies which encoding would be used for the filenames given to the callback argument. The default value is ‘utf8’.
        - **withFileTypes:** It is a boolean value which specifies whether the files would be returned as fs.Dirent objects. The default value is ‘false’.
    - **callback:** It is the function that would be called when the method is executed.
        - **err:** It is an error that would be thrown if the operation fails.
        - **files:** It is an array of String, Buffer or fs.Dirent objects that contain the files in the directory.

```jsx
fs.readdir(__dirname, (err, files) => {
    if (err) console.log(err);
    else {
        files.forEach((file) => {
            console.log(file);
        });
    }
});
// data
// fs.js
// test
```

- **rmdir**( path, options, callback )
    - **path:** It holds the path of the directory that has to be removed. It can be a String, Buffer or URL.
    - **options:** It is an object that can be used to specify optional parameters that will affect the operation. It has three optional parameters:
        - **recursive:** It is a boolean value which specifies if recursive directory removal is performed. In this mode, errors are not reported if the specified path is not found and the operation is retried on failure. The default value is false.
        - **maxRetries:** It is an integer value which specifies the number of times Node.js will try to perform the operation when it fails due to any error. The operations are performed after the given retry delay. This option is ignored if the recursive option is not set to true. The default value is 0.
        - **retryDelay:** It is an integer value which specifies the time to wait in milliseconds before the operation is retried. This option is ignored if the recursive option is not set to true. The default value is 100 milliseconds.
    - **callback:** It is the function that would be called when the method is executed.
        - **err:** It is an error that would be thrown if the operation fails.

```jsx
fs.rmdir("test", (error) => {
    if (error) {
        console.log(error);
    } else {
        console.log("Directories Deleted!");
    }
});

// using recursive:true to remove a nested folder
fs.rmdir("pop", { recursive: true }, (error) => {
    if (error) {
        console.log(error);
    } else {
        console.log("Directories Deleted!");
    }
});
```

- **copyFile**( src, dest, mode, callback )
    - **src:** It is a String, Buffer, or URL that denotes the source filename to copy.
    - **dest:** It is a String, Buffer, or URL that denotes the destination filename that the copy operation would create.
    - **mode:** It is an integer that specifies the behavior of the copy operation. The values can be given predefined constants that have their respective behaviours:
        - **fs.constants.COPYFILE_EXCL:** This constant specifies that the copy operation would fail if the destination filename already exists.
        - **fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE:** This constant specifies that the copy operation would try to create a copy-on-write reflink. A fallback mechanism is used if the platform does not support copy-on-write.
        - **fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE_FORCE:** This constant specifies that the copy operation would try to create a copy-on-write reflink. The operation would fail if the platform does not support copy-on-write, unlike the previous one.

```jsx
fs.copyFile("new.txt", "copied_file.txt", (err) => {
    if (err) {
        console.log("Error Found:", err);
    } else {
        // after the function
        console.log(fs.readFileSync("copied_file.txt", "utf8"));
    }
});
```

- **rename**( oldPath, newPath, callback
    - **oldPath:** It holds the path of the file that has to be renamed. It can be a string, buffer, or URL.
    - **newPath:** It holds the new path that the file has to be renamed. It can be a string, buffer, or URL.
    - **callback:** It is the function that would be called when the method is executed. It has an optional argument for showing any error that occurs during the process.

```jsx
fs.rename("copied_file.txt", "new_copied.txt", () => {
    console.log("\nFile Renamed!\n");
});
```

- **stat**( path, options, callback )
    - **path:** It holds the path of the file or directory that has to be checked. It can be a String, Buffer or URL.
    - **options:** It is an object that can be used to specify optional parameters that will affect the output. It has one optional parameter:
        - **bigint:** It is a boolean value which specifies if the numeric values returned in the fs.Stats object are bigint. The default value is false.
    - **callback:** It is the function that would be called when the method is executed.
        - **err:** It is an error that would be thrown if the method
        - **stats:** It is the Stats object that contains the details of the file path.

```jsx
// Getting information for a file
fs.stat("new.txt", (error, stats) => {
    if (error) {
        console.log(error);
    } else {
        console.log(stats);

        // Using methods of the Stats object
        console.log(stats.isFile());
        console.log(stats.isDirectory());
    }
});
// Stats {
//     dev: 2080,
//     mode: 33188,
//     nlink: 1,
//     uid: 1000,
//     gid: 1000,
//     rdev: 0,
//     blksize: 4096,
//     ino: 151867,
//     size: 11,
//     blocks: 8,
//     atimeMs: 1715766593951.4294,
//     mtimeMs: 1715766593931.4294,
//     ctimeMs: 1715766593931.4294,
//     birthtimeMs: 1715766575351.4326,
//     atime: 2024-05-15T09:49:53.951Z,
//     mtime: 2024-05-15T09:49:53.931Z,
//     ctime: 2024-05-15T09:49:53.931Z,
//     birthtime: 2024-05-15T09:49:35.351Z
//   }
//   true
//  false
```

- **symlink**( target, path, type, callback )
    - **target:** It is a string, buffer or URL which represents the path to which the symlink has to be created.
    - **path:** It is a string, buffer or URL which represents the path where the symlink will be created.
    - **type:** It is a string which represents the type of symlink to be created. It can be specified with ‘file’, ‘dir’ or ‘junction’. If the target does not exist, ‘file’ will be used.
    - **callback:** It is the function that would be called when the method is executed.
        - **err:** It is an error that would be thrown if the operation fails.

```jsx
fs.symlink("new.txt", "symlinkToNew", "file", (err) => {
    if (err) console.log(err);
    else {
        console.log(fs.readFileSync("symlinkToNew", "utf8"));
        // this is new
    }
});
```

- **truncate**( path, len, callback )
    - **path:** It holds the path of targeted file. It can be either string, buffer or a url.
    - **len:** It holds the length of the file after which the file will be truncated. It takes an integer input and it is not the mandatory condition as it is default set to 0.
    - **callback:** The callback receives one argument, any exception throws in the call.

```jsx
fs.open("new.txt", "r+", function (err, fd) {
    if (err) {
        return console.error(err);
    }
    // Truncating the file
    fs.truncate("new.txt", 4, function (err) {
        if (err) {
            console.log(err);
        }
        // Content after truncating

        fs.read(fd, buffer, 0, buffer.length, 0, function (err, bytes) {
            if (err) {
                console.log(err);
            }
            // Print only read bytes to avoid junk.
            console.log(bytes); // 4
            if (bytes > 0) {
                console.log(buffer.slice(0, bytes).toString()); // this
            }
        });
    });
});
```

# 2. Path Module

<aside>
💡 The Path Module in Node.js provides the utilities for working with file and directory paths

</aside>

```jsx
// Import the path module
const path = require('path');
```

## 2.1 **Useful path properties**

- **sep** : that represents the platform-specific path separator,  returns ”**\”** on Windows and ”**/”** on Linux and macOS.

```jsx
console.log(path.sep); // "/"
```

- **delimiter** : that represents the path delimiter, returns “**;”** on Windows and “**:”** on Linux and macOS.

```jsx
// delimiter property
console.log(path.delimiter); // ":"
```

## 2.2 P**ath methods**

- **basename**(path) :  returns the last portion of a specified path
    - **path:** It is the file path that would be used to extract the filename.
    - **extension:** It is an optional file extension that would be removed from the returned string.

```jsx
console.log(path.basename(__filename)); // path.js

//using extension param
console.log(path.basename(__filename, ".js")); // path
```

- **dirname**(path) : returns the directory name of a specified path
    - **path:** It is the file path that would be used to extract the directory name. It throws a TypeError if this parameter is not a string value.

```jsx
let path1 = path.dirname("website/index.html");
console.log(path1); // website

// Only file name
// returns a period (.)
let path2 = path.dirname("readme.md");
console.log(path2); // "."

// Path with file not specified
let path3 = path.dirname("website/post/comments");
console.log(path3); // website/post

console.log(path.dirname(__dirname));
// /home/sonhoang2071/workspace/internship/nodejs/basic-nodejs/week-2/practices
console.log(path.dirname(__filename));
// /home/sonhoang2071/workspace/internship/nodejs/basic-nodejs/week-2/practices/day_3-4-5
```

- **extname**(path) : returns extension of the path
    - **path:** It is the file path that would be used to extract the directory name.

```jsx
console.log(path.extname('index.html')); // .html
console.log(path.extname('app.js')); // .js
console.log(path.extname('node.js.md')); // .md
```

- **format**(pathObject) : returns a path string from a specified **path** object.
    - **pathObject** that contains the details of the path. It has the following parameters:
        - **dir:** It specifies the directory name of the path object.
        - **root:** It specifies the root of the path object.
        - **base:** It specifies the base of the path object.
        - **name:** It specifies the file name of the path object.
        - **ext:** It specifies the file extension of the path object.

```jsx
let pathToFile = path.format({
    dir: 'public_html/home',
    name : "main",
    ext: ".js"
});

console.log(pathToFile); // public_html/home/main.js
```

- **isAbsolute(**path**) :** returns **true** if a specified path is an absolute path.
    - **path:** It is the file path that would be used to extract the directory name. It throws a TypeError if this parameter is not a string value.

```jsx
let result = path.isAbsolute('/node/js/');
console.log(result); // true

result = path.isAbsolute('/node/..');
console.log(result); // true

result = path.isAbsolute('node/');
console.log(result); // false

result = path.isAbsolute('.');
console.log(result); // false
```

- **join(**[…paths]**) :** It returns a string with the complete normalized path containing all the segments.
    - **paths:** It is a comma-separated sequence of paths that would be joined together to make the final path.

```jsx
let pathToDir = path.join('/home', 'public', 'js', 'app.js');
console.log(pathToDir); // /home/public/js/app.js
```

- **normalize**(path) : It returns a string with the normalized form of the path.
    - **path:** It is a comma-separated sequence of paths that would be joined together to make the final path.

```jsx
let path1 = path.normalize("/users/admin/.");
console.log(path1); // /users/admin

let path2 = path.normalize(".");
console.log(path2); // "."

let path3 = path.normalize("/users/admin/../download");
console.log(path3); // /users/download

let path4 = path.normalize("/users///admin///download");
console.log(path4); // /users/admin/download
```

- parse(path) : returns an object whose properties represent the path elements. The returned object has the following properties:
    - **path:** It is the file path that would be used to extract the directory name.
        - root: the root
        - dir: the directory path from the root
        - base: the file name + extension
        - name: the file name
        - ext: the extension

```jsx
let pathObj = path.parse(__filename);
console.log(pathObj);
// {
//     root: '/',
//     dir: '/home/sonhoang2071/workspace/internship/nodejs/basic-nodejs/week-2/practices/day_3-4-5',
//     base: 'path.js',
//     ext: '.js',
//     name: 'path'
// }
```

- **relative**( from, to ) : returns a string with the normalized form of the path.
    - **from:** It is the file path that would be used as base path.
    - **to:** It is the file path that would be used to find the relative path.

```jsx
let path1 = path.relative("nodejs/website", "nodejs/main.js");
console.log(path1); // ../main.js

let path2 = path.relative("home/users", "users/son/nodejs");
console.log(path2); // ../../users/son/nodejs

// When both the paths are same
// It returns blank string
let path3 = path.relative("home/users", "home/users");
console.log(path3); // ""
```

- **resolve**([...paths]) :  returns a string with absolute path. If you don’t pass any argument into the method, it will return the current working directory.
    - **paths:** It is a series of file paths that would be resolved together to form an absolute path. It throws a TypeError if this parameter is not a string value.

```jsx
let path1 = path.resolve("home/users", "readme.md");
console.log(path1);
// /home/sonhoang2071/workspace/internship/nodejs/basic-nodejs/week-2/practices/day_3-4-5/home/users/readme.md

// Resolving 3 path-segments
// with the current directory
let path2 = path.resolve("home", "users", "readme.md");
console.log(path2);
// /home/sonhoang2071/workspace/internship/nodejs/basic-nodejs/week-2/practices/day_3-4-5/home/users/readme.md

// Treating of the first segment
// as root, ignoring the current directory
let path3 = path.resolve("/home/users", "readme.md");
console.log(path3);
// /home/users/readme.md
```

# 3. Url Module

<aside>
💡 The url module provides utilities for URL resolution and parsing. It can be accessed using

</aside>

```jsx
const url = require('url');
```

The ‘**url**’ module provides utilities for URL resolution and parsing. The getters and setters implement the properties of URL objects on the class prototype, and the URL class is available on the global object.

The **new URL()** (*Added in v7.0.0, v6.13.0*) ****method is an inbuilt application programming interface of the URL module which creates a new URL object by parsing the input relative to the base. If the base is passed as a string, it will be parsed equivalent to *new URL(base)*.

```jsx
new URL(input[, base])
```

## 3.1 Methods

```jsx
const newURL = new URL("https://www.lizai.co:123/?file=newFile&#pass");
const objUrl = url.parse("https://www.lizai.co:123/?file=newFile&#pass");
```

- **href :** It gets and sets the serialized URL.

```jsx
console.log(newURL.href); // https://www.lizai.co/#file?=newFile
console.log(objUrl.href); // https://www.lizai.co/#file?=newFile
```

- **hash :** return hash of url

```jsx
console.log(newURL.hash); // #pass
console.log(objUrl.hash); // #pass

// change hash
newURL.hash = "hash"
objUrl.hash = "hash"

// after change
console.log(newURL.href); // https://www.lizai.co:123/?file=newFile&#hash
console.log(objUrl.href); // https://www.lizai.co:123/?file=newFile&#pass
```

- **host** : return the host name and port in the url as a **string.**

```jsx
console.log(newURL.host); // www.lizai.co:1233
console.log(objUrl.host);  // www.lizai.co:123
```

- **hostname :** return the hostname

```jsx
console.log(newURL.hostname); // www.lizai.co
console.log(objUrl.hostname);  // www.lizai.co
```

- **search** : Returns the search query after **‘?’** character.

```jsx
console.log(newURL.search); // ?file=newFile
console.log(objUrl.search); // ?file=newFile
```

- **searchParam** & **query :** Returns the search query after **‘?’** character.

```jsx
console.log(newURL.searchParams); // URLSearchParams { 'file' => 'newFile' }
console.log(objUrl.query); // [Object: null prototype] { file: 'newFile' }
```

- **protocol** : returns the protocol used

```jsx
console.log(newURL.protocol); // https
console.log(objUrl.protocol); // https
```

- **port** : returns the URL port number or None

```jsx
console.log(newURL.port); // 123
console.log(objUrl.port); // 123
```

- **pathname** : returns the pathname used

```jsx
console.log(newURL.pathname); // "/"
console.log(objUrl.pathname); // "/"
```

## 3.2 Search Params

- **forEach** : loop all element in params

```jsx
newURL.searchParams.forEach((value ,key) => console.log(key + " : " + value));
// file : newFile
```

- **keys :** return all keys of params

```jsx
let keys = newURL.searchParams.keys();
console.log(keys); // URLSearchParams Iterator { 'file' }
for (const i of keys) {
    console.log(i); 
}
// file
```

- **values :** return all values of params

```jsx
let values = newURL.searchParams.values();
console.log(values); // URLSearchParams Iterator { 'newFile' }
for (const i of values) {
    console.log(i); 
}
```

- **get :** get a value of key

```jsx
console.log(newURL.searchParams.get("file")); // newFile
```

- **set :** set value for key, if key is not exist will append

```jsx
newURL.searchParams.set("file","oldFile");
newURL.searchParams.set("age",10);
console.log(newURL.searchParams.toString()); // file=oldFile&age=10
```

- **append** : append a new param in params

```jsx
newURL.searchParams.append("file","salary");
console.log(newURL.searchParams.toString()); // file=oldFile&age=10&file=salary
```

- entries : returns an iterator that allows iterating through all the key/value pairs present in the object.

```jsx
console.log(newURL.searchParams.entries()); 
// URLSearchParams Iterator { [ 'file', 'oldFile' ], [ 'age', '10' ], [ 'file', 'salary' ] }
```

- getAll : return all values of a key

```jsx
console.log(newURL.searchParams.getAll("file")); // [ 'oldFile', 'salary' ]
```

- delete : delete a specified param

```jsx
newURL.searchParams.delete("age");
console.log(newURL.searchParams.toString()); // file=oldFile&file=salary
```

# 4. Http & Https Module

<aside>
💡 To make HTTP requests in Node.js, there is a built-in module **HTTP** in Node.js to transfer data over the HTTP. To use the HTTP server in the node, we need to require the HTTP module. The HTTP module creates an HTTP server that listens to server ports and gives a response back to the client.

</aside>

<aside>
💡 HTTPS is the HTTP protocol over TLS/SSL. In Node.js this is implemented as a separate module.

</aside>

## 4.1 Fundamentals

```jsx
const http = require("http");
const https = require("https");
```

<aside>
💡 create an HTTP server with the help of **http.createServer()** method.

</aside>

```jsx
// create server
http.createServer((req, res) => {
    // Sends a chunk of the res body
    res.write("Hello World!");

    // Signals the server that all of
    // the res headers and body
    // have been sent
    res.end();
}).listen(3001, () => {
    console.log("Server listening on port 3001");
});
// Hello World!
```

- **http.request**() : To make requests via the HTTP

```jsx
let opts = {
    host: 'www.lizai.co',
    path: '/products',
    method: 'GET'
};
 
// Making a get request to
// 'www.lizai.co'
http.request(opts, (res) => {
    // the statusCode
    console.log(res.statusCode); // 301
}).end();
```

### 4.1.1 Client Request

- **connection** : used to get the reference of underlying client request socket.

```jsx
http.createServer((req, res) => {}).listen(3000, "127.0.0.1", () => {
    // Getting client request
    const req = http.request({
        port: 3000,
        host: "127.0.0.1",
    });

    // Getting request socket
    // by using connection method
    if (req.connection) {
        console.log("Requested for Connection");
    } else {
        console.log("Not Requested for Connection");
    }

    process.exit(0);
});
// Not Requested for Connection
```

- **aborted** :  used to check if the client request has been aborted or not

```jsx
const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
    res.writeHead(200, { "Content-Type": "text/plain" });
    res.end("okay");
});

// Now that server is running
server.listen(3000, "127.0.0.1", () => {
    console.log("Server is Started");
    // Make a request
    const options = {
        port: 3000,
        host: "127.0.0.1",
        headers: {
            Connection: "Upgrade",
            Upgrade: "websocket",
        },
    };

    // Getting client request
    const req = http.request(options);

    // Aborting the request
    // by using abort() api
    req.abort();

    // checking if the client request
    // has been aborted or not
    // by using aborted api
    if (req.aborted) console.log("client request has been aborted");
    else console.log("client request has not been aborted");
});
```

- **path** : return path of url

```jsx
// Creating http Server
const httpServer = http.createServer(function (req, res) {
    // Getting request path
    // by using request.path
    const value = req.path;
    console.log("Request URL: ", value);
});
// Listening to http Server
httpServer.listen(3000, () => {
    console.log("Server is running at port 3000...");
});
```

- **socket** : used to get a Proxy object that acts as a *net.Socket*.

```jsx
const httpServer = http.createServer(function (req, res) {
    res.writeHead(200, { "Content-Type": "text/plain" });
    res.end("okay");
    console.log(req.socket); // socket object {}
});
// Listening to http Server
httpServer.listen(3000, () => {
    console.log("Server is running at port 3000...");
});
```

- **getHeaders** - **setHeader :**  is used to set - get the object of the header.

```jsx
req.setHeader('foo', 'bar');
console.log(req.getHeaders());
//  {
//   host: 'jsonplaceholder.typicode.com',
//   foo: 'bar'
// }
// End the request
```

- **write**

```jsx
const data = JSON.stringify({
  title: 'foo',
  body: 'bar',
  userId: 1
});
req.write(data);
```

- **setTimeout** : used to set the request time out for the client request.

```jsx
req.setTimeout(5000, () => {
    // Timeout after 5000ms (5 seconds)
    console.error("Request timed out");
    req.destroy(); // Destroy the request
});
```

### 4.1.2 Server

- **listen** : is used to start the server by accepting new connections.

```jsx
server.listen(3001, () => {
    console.log("Server listening on port 3001");
});
```

- **close** : is used to stop the server from accepting new connections.

```jsx
setTimeout(() => {
  server.close(() => {
    console.log('server on port 8000 closed successfully');
  });
}, 5000); 
```

- **setTimeout** : is used to set the request time out for the client request.

```jsx
server.setTimeout(10000, () => {
    console.log("Timeout occurred");
});
```

### 4.1.3 Server Response

- **statusCode** : is used to this property controls the status code that will be sent to the client when the headers get flushed.

```jsx
console.log(res.statusCode); // 200
```

- **statusMessage** : is used to control the status message that will be sent to the client when the headers get flushed.

```jsx
console.log(res.statusMessage);
```

- **setHeaders** - **getHeaders**

```jsx
res.getHeaders();
res.setHeader("Content-Type", "text/plain");
```

- **end** : is used to send the signal to the server that all the header has been sent.

```jsx
res.end("Hello, World!\n");
```